# melanoma-detection
One of the most dangerous and prevalent of all the cancers, melanoma causes a stir amongst people due to the visibility of its symptoms, externally, on the skin. Confirmatory tests for melanoma requires a biopsy post initial clinical screening and associated medical procedures. Since individuals develop several dermal deformities such as rashes, blisters, nevus or seborrheic keratosis, they are often confused with the predominantly prevalent melanoma leading to panic and the inevitable clogging of biopsy clinics and oncology hospitals.\
Our project aims to ease this tension by designing, developing and deploying offline, a power efficient and capable melanoma detection model that is cost effective and easily accessible in order to assist patients, doctors and the medical community at large. In this project we are going to reduce the complexity of network for the cost of accuracy so that it can work in resource constraint environment.\
The dataset is used from archive of the ISIC (International Skin Image Collaboration). It consists of 1780 pictures of benign moles which includes rashes and burns samples and 1781 pictures which are classified as melanoma moles. All the pictures has been resized to a resolution which is low and in (224x224x3) RGB format. Size of data set is 456.3MB.\
The accuracy obtained passes above the accuracy of level II dermatologist. Given these parameters, it is extremely suited for adoption as a mobile based application and for use in a plethora of smart wearable. The future work is to run this code on hardware model and test with clinical data.
